# Ele-intention

A crucial feature of language is the ability to flexibly communicate diverse cognitive goals to a specific audience, i.e. goal-directed intentionality. Core criteria for this ability include a) audience directedness: signalling in the presence of an attentive audience, b) persistence: continuing signalling until goals are met, and c) elaboration: using new signals following communicative failure. While intentional use has been demonstrated in individual gestures in some non-primates, primates—in particular apes—show this ability across many gestures and goals. But is goal-directed intentionality across many gestures restricted to primates? We explored whether savanna elephants use many gestures with goal-directed intentionality. We presented semi-captive elephants with desired (i.e., goal) and non-desired items, recording their communicative attempts when an experimenter met, partially met, or failed to meet their goal. Elephants used 38 gesture types only when a visually attentive experimenter was present, demonstrating audience directedness. They persisted in gesturing more when their goal was partially as compared to fully met, but showed no difference in persistence when the goal was met or not met. Elephants elaborated their gesturing when their goal was not met. We find goal-directed intentionality across many elephant gestures and reveal that elephants, like apes, assess the communicative effectiveness of their gesturing, providing evidence for convergent evolution of these capacities across distant taxa occupying similar socio-cognitive niches.
